# Client-Server

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
To write a program that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable is straight forward. To maintain a program simply means to keep the program current with updates that may improve security or functionality of the program, it could mean to add more features or make the UI/UX more user friendly. All in all, you need to make the program more modular to improve its reusability.
To make a program more readable simply means to keep your code in order and easy to read. Add plenty of comments to help others read and understand your code so when they may need to change or improve upon your code, they can know what and how to do it.
Adaptability is like maintaining a program. Except, it focuses on making a program more modular so that depending on any situation, you should be able to use your program to achieve your overall goal. This simply means that each function in your program should be dedicated to one thing/ action, this way when you need to use that action it’s called from your program.
I can see myself using a CRUD module in my future career to help myself read and write to a database. I can also see me improving my current CRUD file to expand the functions and improve its overall functionality.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? 

	The first thing I do is figure out what the end goal of the problem is and what I would need to do to achieve that goal. I then determine what needs to be accomplished first to get a basic working code i.e., importing databases or creating modules to use in the program. Next, after creating all the necessary modules to run all the functions I would build the code to run those modules.
	This project was very different than other courses due to how much I had to research on my own to grasp an understanding of what was required. This was also my first-time using databases, Dash, and coding in “C”. I have done “C++ before but never just “C”. I did enjoy building the CRUD module and I can see how a CRUD module would be very helpful tool to have in my career. Before I would access a “csv” file directly by reading the file with Python and that seemed easy enough, but this course showed me a new way to extract information. 
	I will use CRUD modules in the future and possible just continue building on the one I created for this course and trying to make it a more definitive module that can to a lot more than just create, read, update, and delete information.

What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests? What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

	Before I start creating databases for clients I will require more practice with databases so that I can become more efficient and be able to give them a quality product. 
	Computer scientists develop software that can process data and do exact calculations that are troublesome to do manually and could possibly be prone to error if done by hand. They build things that are meant to help clients do their jobs. This matters now since computers and other technologies, like cell phones, have changed the way the world works and how people connect to information. Now, computers are used to create entire movies and complex automations within factories. The possibilities of what a computer can do today is only limited by the imagination of the individual creating the product.
	The work I did on this project could help many companies. Being able to sort through databases to search for specific traits would allow companies to search for positive or negative trends in their financial portfolios so that company could make necessary changes to improve productivity. Grazioso Salvare would be able to use this project to search for specific breeds of animals that would be a good match to be trained as rescue animals within their database. So, even if their database grew by another 10,000 entries they could still use this program.
